.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH KBD __drivermansuffix__ 2025-06-01 __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
kbd \- XLibre keyboard input driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qInputDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q" idevname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qkbd\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kbd
is an XLibre input driver for keyboards.
The driver supports the standard OS-provided keyboard interface,
but these are currently only available to this driver module for
GNU Hurd, BSD, and Solaris.
.PP
The
.B kbd
driver functions as a keyboard input device.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Depending on the X server version in use, input device options may be set
in either a xorg.conf file, an xorg.conf.d snippet, or in the
configuration files read by the Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) daemon,
.BR hald (1).
.PP
Please refer to
.BR xorg.conf (__filemansuffix__)
for general configuration details and
for options that can be used with all input drivers.
This section only covers configuration details specific to this driver.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported:
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qDevice\*q \*q" string \*q
Specify the keyboard device.
Default: the OS's default console keyboard input source.
Property: "Device Node" (read-only).
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qProtocol\*q \*q" string \*q
Specify the keyboard protocol.
Valid protocol types include:
.PP
.RS 12
standard, wskbd.
.RE
.PP
.RS 7
Not all protocols are supported on all platforms.
Default: "Standard".
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qXLeds\*q \*q" ledlist \*q
makes the keyboard LEDs specified in
.I ledlist
available for client use instead of their traditional function
(Scroll Lock, Caps Lock and Num Lock).
The numbers in the list are in the range 1 to 3.
Default: empty list.
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qXkbRules\*q \*q" rules \*q
specifies which XKB rules file to use for interpreting the
.BR XkbModel ,
.BR XkbLayout ,
.BR XkbVariant ,
and
.B XkbOptions
settings.
Default: "base" for most platforms.
If you use the "base" value then you can
find listing of all valid values for these four options in the
.I
__xkb_path__/rules/base.lst
file.
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qXkbModel\*q \*q" modelname \*q
specifies the XKB keyboard model name.
Default: "pc105" for most platforms.
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qXkbLayout\*q \*q" layoutname \*q
specifies the XKB keyboard layout name.
This is usually the country or language type of the keyboard.
Default: "us" for most platforms.
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qXkbVariant\*q \*q" variants \*q
specifies the XKB keyboard variant components.
These can be used to enhance the keyboard layout details.
Default: not set.
.TP 7
.BI "Option \*qXkbOptions\*q \*q" options \*q
specifies the XKB keyboard option components.
These can be used to enhance the keyboard behaviour.
Default: not set.
.PP
For a list of available XKB options, see
.BR xkeyboard-config (__miscmansuffix__).
.SH EXAMPLE
The following xorg.conf fragment ensures that the user
will be able to switch between
.I us
and
.I sk
layouts by pressing the "menu" key.
The scroll lock LED shows which layout is currently active.
.PP
The
.B XkbVariant
option defines which variants of the two layouts should be used.
In case of the
.I us
layout
its default variant is used.
In case of the
.I sk
layout
its
.I qwerty
variant is used.
.PP
.nf
.RS 4
Section \*qInputDevice\*q
.RS 4
Identifier   "Generic Keyboard"
Driver       "kbd"
Option       "CoreKeyboard"
Option       "XkbRules"      "base"
Option       "XkbModel"      "pc105"
Option       "XkbLayout"     "us,sk"
Option       "XkbVariant"    ",qwerty"
Option       "XkbOptions"    "grp:menu_toggle,grp_led:scroll"
.RE
EndSection
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XLibre (__appmansuffix__),
.BR xorg.conf (__filemansuffix__),
.BR Xserver (__appmansuffix__),
.BR X (__miscmansuffix__).
.sp
.BR hal (__miscmansuffix__),
.BR hald (__adminmansuffix__),
.BR fdi (__filemansuffix__).
.sp
.BR xkeyboard-config (__miscmansuffix__).
